hey this is pressure Locker can you find
the total area of the red spots the
diagram involves a rectangle with
dimensions 10 and 20 the rectangle has
one of its diagonals connected inside
the rectangle are two circles of equal
size which are tangent to each other and
tangent to the rectangle if you can
solve this problem then try this much
harder variation this was supposedly
asked to sixth graders in China can you
now find the total area of the red spots
give these problems a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution we'll get started on the
first problem we'll solve for the area
of the red regions by subtraction we'll
take the area of this triangle and then
we'll subtract out different portions of
the circles so we can set up a formula
that the area of the red regions is
equal to the area of this right triangle
minus the area of each of these pieces
from the different circles now it looks
like these two pieces actually join to
form one circle you can notice this by
symmetry and I will illustrate it by
putting these two pieces together we now
solve for the area of each piece the
area of a right triangle is its base
times its height divided by 2 the area
of a circle is pi times R squared the
right triangle has a base of 20 and a
height of 10 the circle has a radius
which is equal to 1/2 the height of the
rectangle and it's radius is equal to 5
so the circle has an area of pi times 5
squared this means the area of the red
regions is equal to 100 minus 25 pi or
approximately 20 1.46
now let's tackle the second part of the
problem we know the area of the red
regions as illustrated is a hundred
minus 25 pi the second part says what
would happen if you remove this region
from the lower left-hand corner so we
can solve for the red regions by solving
for the area of this particular piece to
do that we'll consider a simplified
diagram we'll just consider one of the
circles and it'll be inside of a square
with side length 10 we can again solve
this by subtraction we consider this
right triangle we're going to remove
this portion from the lower right hand
corner and then we're going to remove
this portion of the circle and what
remains is the area of the lower left
hand corner so we'll set up our formula
that the area we want is equal to the
area of the rep of the triangle minus
the area of this piece in the lower
right hand corner - this piece of the
circle the area of the right triangle is
its base times its height divided by 2
this right triangle has a height of 5 so
it's area will be 10 times 5 divided by
2 what about the piece in the lower
right hand corner we can solve this by
subtraction will consider one quarter of
the square this square has a side length
of five we then subtract out one quarter
of the circle so we can solve for this
piece by taking one quarter of the
square and subtracting out one quarter
of the circle this square has a side
length of five so it's area is 25 the
circle has a radius of five so one
quarter of the circle is pi times five
squared divided by four
so we solve for this portion as 25 times
1 minus PI over 4 so we just have one
more piece to solve for this is the most
complicated part will again consider it
by subtraction will consider this sector
of the circle will then remove out this
isosceles triangle and that'll leave us
the area of the piece we want so we can
again set up a formula that the region
we want is equal to the area of a sector
of the circle minus the area of this
isosceles triangle in order to calculate
these areas we're going to have to use
formulas for these particular shapes if
we have a circle with the radius of r
and a sector having an angle alpha and
this is in radians then the area of this
sector is equal to r-squared times alpha
divided by 2 for triangle with side
lengths a b and an angle in between them
of beta it's area is equal to a times B
times the sine of beta divided by 2 so
we now need to consider what are the
angles involved and what are the lengths
involved in these formulas well the
circle has a radius which is one-half of
the square which has a length of 10 so
the radius is 5 and the radius is 5 over
here - this is also the other side of
the triangle so we have an isosceles
triangle if we consider the right
triangle from the lower left hand corner
and say this has an angle of theta the
radius of the circle will be parallel to
the side of the rectangle so it's
corresponding angle over here will also
be theta the other side of this triangle
we have an isosceles triangle so it will
also have an angle theta this means the
central angle of this sector will be 2
pi pi minus 2 theta because the angles
in a triangle
add up to pi radians so we can now
substitute in these dimensions into our
formulas we can simplify the formula for
sine of pi minus two theta because sine
of pi minus 2 theta is equal to sine of
two theta sine of pi minus any angle is
equal to sine of that angle so now we
need to consider what is this angle
theta well in our original triangle it
has a base it has a height of five and a
base of ten so we can use trigonometry
to say that the angle theta is equal to
the inverse tangent of 5 over 10 which
is the inverse tangent of 1/2 so we can
substitute that in and we'll simplify
our formula for the area of the sector
now for the area of the saw sleaze
triangle we can use the double angle
formula for sine of two theta
and simplify that a bit and now we need
to solve for the sine of theta and the
cosine of theta well in this right
triangle we have one side length ten and
a height of five so we know that its
diagonal can be solved by the
Pythagorean theorem so we have a 10
squared which is 100 plus 5 squared
which is 25 so that means the square
root of these is eat the sum of these is
equal to the length of the hypotenuse so
we the hypotenuse is equal to the square
root of 125 so we can solve for the sine
of theta as 5 divided by the square root
of 125 and the cosine of theta is equal
to 10 divided by the square root of 125
so substituting that in and simplifying
we end up with the area of this
isosceles triangle is equal to 10 and
now we have a formula for the region of
the circle that we want it's 25 PI over
2 minus 25 the inverse tangent of 1/2
minus 10 so we have all the different
areas of the pieces we want and we can
simplify this formula to get the area of
the lower left hand corner is equal to
10 minus 25 PI over 4 plus 25 times the
inverse tangent of 1/2 so we'll put this
all together
this is approximately one point nine
five six so now we're going to put this
all together and we're going to
calculate the area of the red regions so
as illustrated the red regions are a
hundred minus twenty-five pi in our
second problem we want to remove this
one piece in the lower left-hand corner
which we just solve for so we can
substitute that in our formula and then
simplify to get the area of these red
regions is a ninety minus eighteen point
seven five pi minus twenty five times
the inverse tangent of one half and this
is approximately nineteen point five oh
four did you figure this out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
locker and if you like the video please
check out my books there links in the
video description